📖 Add validation for ClusterClass compatibility (#4985)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/proposals/202105256-cluster-class-and-managed-topologies.md

  - `spec.topology.workers.machineDeployments[i].name` field must be unique within a Cluster
  
- For object updates:

>   - If `spec.topology.class` is set, it cannot be unset.

Author: @fabriziopandini does this cover the use case adequately?

Author: I think that's right, so this is a change to enable that behaviour by removing that validation rule and adding additional validation for compatibility to address the consequences of allowing users to change this field.

Reviewer: We should prevent also unmanaged --> managed; what about simply stating that we prevent changing from managed to unmanaged and vice versa?

  - `spec.topology.version` cannot be unset and must be a valid semver, if being updated.
  - `spec.topology.version` cannot be downgraded.
  - `spec.topology.workers.machineDeployments[i].name` field must be unique within a Cluster
  - A set of worker nodes can be added to or removed from the `spec.topology.workers.machineDeployments` list.

##### ClusterClass compatibility
There are cases where we must consider whether two ClusterClasses are compatible:
1. Where a user chooses to replace an existing ClusterClass `cluster.spec.topology.class` with a new ClusterClass
2. Where a user updates a ClusterClass currently in use by a Cluster

To establish compatibility between two ClusterClasses:
    - All the reference must be in the same namespace of `metadata.Namespace`  
    - `spec.workers.machineDeployments` must not remove any deployment classes (adding new or modifying existing classes is supported).

>     - `spec.controlPlane.ref`, `spec.infrastructure.ref`,  `spec.workers.machineDeployments[].template.infrastructure.ref` must not change apiGroup or Kind

Reviewer 2: Not sure how (at least not in a better way). There's a fourth ref `spec.workers.machineDeployments[].template.infrastructure.ref` where we only want to validate the namespace and nothing else

  - `spec.topology.workers.machineDeployments[i].name` field must be unique within a Cluster
  - A set of worker nodes can be added to or removed from the `spec.topology.workers.machineDeployments` list.

##### ClusterClass compatibility
There are cases where we must consider whether two ClusterClasses are compatible:

> 1. Where a user chooses to replace an existing ClusterClass `cluster.spec.topology.class` with a new ClusterClass

Author: I think so - changing this field is the only user interaction that could allow moving a cluster from one ClusterClass to another. Is there another way?

> 1. Where a user chooses to replace an existing ClusterClass `cluster.spec.topology.class` with a new ClusterClass

Reviewer: agreed, let's remove L317 then

> 1. Where a user chooses to replace an existing ClusterClass `cluster.spec.topology.class` with a new ClusterClass

Author: Do you think it's better to remove the line fully, or modify it to allow modification but not removal? Are there specific dangers introduced from managed <-> unmanned transitions that won't be covered in ClassA -> ClassB transitions?

> 1. Where a user chooses to replace an existing ClusterClass `cluster.spec.topology.class` with a new ClusterClass

Reviewer: got point, modify the rule so we prevent managed <-> unmanned transitions and the we can eventually iterate addressing those use cases in a follow up

> 2. Where a user updates a ClusterClass currently in use by a Cluster

Reviewer: Note (implementation detail for a later stage): In order to make this possible, the rules currently implemented in the validation web hook should be relax

- To establish compatibility between two ClusterClasses:
    - All the reference must be in the same namespace of `metadata.Namespace`

>     - `spec.workers.machineDeployments` supports adding new deployment classes.
>     - `spec.workers.machineDeployments` must not remove any deployment classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `spec.workers.machineDeployments` must not remove any deployment classes (adding new or modify existing is supported).
```

Author: /fixed

  - `spec.topology.workers.machineDeployments[i].name` field must be unique within a Cluster

- For object updates:

>   - If `spec.topology.class` is set, it cannot be unset and if it's unset it cannot be set.

Reviewer: Q: are we going to enable rebase after this PR?
If not let's add
```suggestion
  - If `spec.topology.class` is set, it cannot be modified or unset and if it's unset it cannot be set.
```

Author: I think rebasing could feasibly be tested in the first run of integration testing for the clusterClass - we have the compatibility and reconciliation in place in the current version of the code, so I don't think including this is an issue at this point /cc @sbueringer

Reviewer 2: I think Fabrizio's point is that the webhook currently forbids this and the proposal should be somewhat consistent with the code. So we should either make the code consistent with the proposal or the other way around.
(I forgot that the webhook currently blocks this when we talked about tests before)

Author: That makes sense - I've updated the proposal. We'll have to come back to this once we enable the behaviour in the webhook and have confidence in the code as it exists.
